.TH FIRETABLE 1

.SH NAME
firetable \- IPtables firewall script

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B firetable
{start|stop|restart|status|flush|debug}

.SH CONFIG
Place the configuration for each interface in a separate file: /etc/firetable/ipv[46]_<interface>

.SH FORMAT
include <filename>

set subnetmask 0..32
.br
set <variable> <value>
.br
file <variable> <filename>
.br
blacklist <url|filename>

(accept|drop|reject) (incoming|outgoing) ip [from <subnet>] [to <subnet>]
.br
(accept|drop|reject) (incoming|outgoing) (tcp|udp) [from <subnet>[:<port>]] [to <host>[:<port>]]
.br
(accept|drop|reject) (incoming|outgoing) icmp [type <icmp-type>] [from <subnet>] [to <subnet>]
.br
(accept|drop|reject) user <username|userid> [to <subnet>[:<port>]]
.br
(accept|drop|reject) group <groupname|groupid> [to <subnet>[:<port>]]

[dont] forward ip [from <subnet>] [to <subnet>]
.br
[dont] forward (tcp|udp) [from <subnet>[:<port>]] [to <subnet>[:<port>]]
.br
[dont] forward icmp [type <icmp-type>] [from <subnet>] [to <subnet>]
.br
snat (tcp|udp) [from <subnet>[:<port>]] [to <subnet>[:<port>]] [-> <host>]
.br
snat (icmp|ip) [from <subnet>] [to <subnet>] [-> <host>]
.br
dont snat (tcp|udp) [from <subnet>[:<port>]] [to <subnet>[:<port>]]
.br
dont snat (icmp|ip) [from <subnet>] [to <subnet>]
.br
dnat (tcp|udp) [from <subnet>[:<port>]] to <subnet>:<port> -> <host>[:<port>]
.br
dont dnat (tcp|udp) [from <subnet>[:<port>]] to <subnet>:<port>

iptables <iptables commandline options>

.SH TYPES
<host>  : <ip_address>
.br
<subnet>: <ip_address>[/<subnetmask>]
.br
<port>  : (1..65535)[-(1..65535)]
.br
<userid>: (0..65535)

.SH VARIABLES
Via the command 'set', you can define variables. When using a variable, use the variable name starting with a dollar sign. For example, 'set key = value' sets the variable 'key' with the value 'value'. When using this variable, use '$key'.

Via the command 'file', you can set a variable with the content of a file, defined as a set. For example, 'file key file.txt' will set the variable 'key' with the value "{ <line 1>, <line 2>, ... }". Read more about sets in the chapter SETS.

.SH ALIASES
 'server' will be translated to the IP address of the interface
.br
 'domain' will be translated to the IP address if the interface with $subnetmask as the subnetmask
.br
 'anywhere' will be translated to '0.0.0.0/0' for IPv4 or '::/0' for IPv6

.SH BLACKLIST
The URL or file must contain a list of IP addresses. It may contain a comment line starting with a hash.

.SH SETS
You can combine multiple lines by using sets. The elements in a set are separated by commas and the set starts and ends with an accolade. For example, the configuration line
.br

	accept incoming {tcp, udp} to server:{100, 200}
.br

expands to
.br

	accept incoming tcp to server:100
.br
	accept incoming tcp to server:200
.br
	accept incoming udp to server:100
.br
	accept incoming udp to server:200

.SH EXAMPLE
In the following example, a server connects a LAN (eth1) to the internet (eth0).
.TP
.B Configuration file for the internet interface (ipv4_eth0):
# Firetable configurationfile for eth0
.br
#
.br
set subnetmask 32
.br
set ntp_server ntp.xs4all.nl
.br
set web_server 192.168.0.5

# Allowed traffic
.br
#
.br
accept incoming tcp to server:{21-22, 25, 80, 443, 993, 995}
.br
accept incoming udp from anywhere:53
.br
accept incoming udp from $ntp_server to server:123
.br
drop outgoing tcp to anywhere:23

# SNAT LAN traffic
.br
#
.br
# Don't forget to forward the traffic coming from the LAN.
.br
#
.br
snat ip from 192.168.0.0/16

# DNAT (port forwarding)
.br
#
.br
dnat tcp to server:1022 -> server:22

dnat tcp to server:{80, 443} -> $web_server
.br
forward tcp from anywhere to $web_server:{80, 443} # other machine, so forward

accept outgoing ip from server

.TP
.B Configuration file for the LAN interface (ipv4_eth1):
# Firetable configurationfile for eth1
.br
#
.br
set subnetmask 32

# Allowed traffic
.br
#
.br
accept incoming ip to anywhere
.br
forward ip from 192.168.0.0/16
.br

accept outgoing ip from anywhere

.SH SETTINGS
Place the following settings in /etc/firetable/firetable.conf
.TP
.B enable_ipv[46] = yes|no
Enable support for Internet Protocol version 4 and/or 6.
.TP
.B enable_nat = yes|no
Enable support for Network Address Translation.
.TP
.B enable_on_boot = [<interface> [<interface>] ...]
Space-separated list of interfaces for which the firewall will be enabled during boottime. When set to 'all', Firetable will enable the firewall for all available interfaces.
.TP
.B log_priority = (debug|info|notice|warning|error|crit|alert|panic)
Syslog's log priority for Firetable
.TP
.B iptables[46] = /path/to/iptables/binary
Specify the path of the iptables binaries. Default points to /sbin/iptables for IPv4 and /sbin/ip6tables for IPv6.

.SH FILES
.B /usr/sbin/firetable
.br
.B /etc/init.d/firetable
.br
.B /etc/firetable/ipv[46]_<interface>
.br
.B /etc/firetable/firetable.conf

.SH AUTHOR
Firetable is written by Hugo Leisink <hugo@leisink.net> in PHP. More info about Firetable at website:
.br
\fIhttp://projects.leisink.net/\fP
